Increased the readability of the Kover documentation for 0.8.0 (#602)
Kotlin/kotlinx-kover: kover-gradle-plugin/docs/index.md

* Using JaCoCo library as an alternative for coverage measuring and report generation.

## Quickstart
To make the minimal configuration of the plugin, determine the type of your Gradle build and learn the instructions for configuring

## Build types
### Single module Kotlin JVM project
Please refer to the [example project](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx-kover/tree/main/kover-gradle-plugin/examples/jvm/single).

#### Application of Kover plugin

> [Apply the plugin](#apply-kover-gradle-plugin-in-project) in a single project in the Gradle build.

Reviewer: I would insert recommended way of applying plugin right here, so user won't need to jump back and forth between document's sections.

> After applying Kover Gradle plugin, during the running tests, the classes are modified (instrumented) when loaded into the JVM which may lead to some performance degradation, or affect concurrent tests.

Reviewer: > which may lead to some performance degradation, or affect concurrent tests.

This is rather scary description of what is happening — I doubt regular user will notice problems with instrumented tests. Such sentence may make some users afraid of using Kover. I would rather just cut this part at all and/or replace it with 'to learn more about instrumentation and how to solve typical issues you may have with it, refer to corresponding section'

Author: We can soften the wording a little, but it's not worth removing it.
Because some users unexpectedly experience a drop in performance, and if we delete this description or move it somewhere far away, they will not know in advance how instrumentation affects tests.

See: https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx-kover/issues/531

Reviewer: WDYT of:

After applying Kover Gradle plugin, the classes are modified (instrumented) when loaded into the JVM during regular `test` runs, so number of line hits can be counted. This may impact your testing experience. To learn more about instrumentation, it's configuring, and solutions for typical problems, please refer to the [corresponded section](#instrumentation).

For this:
1. select the module that will collect information about all classes and from which the report generation will be launched.
  let's call such a module **merging module**. We recommend using the root module (root Gradle project) as a **merging module**.
2. add dependencies in the **merging module** to all other modules whose classes should be included in the merged report
```kotlin
dependencies {
    kover(project(":moduleA"))
    kover(project(":moduleB"))
}
```

#### Generating reports
Suppose if we chose the root module as the merging module, then

- To generate JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:koverXmlReport` Gradle task
- To generate HTML report, call `:koverHtmlReport` Gradle task
- To validate verification rule specified in project in [verification block](#specify-verification-rules-for-total-variant), call `:koverVerify` Gradle task
- To generate binary report in IC format, call `:koverBinaryReport` Gradle task
- To print coverage to the log, call `:koverLog` Gradle task

If a module with the path `:foo` was selected as the merging module, then you will need to call commands like `:foo:koverXmlReport`, etc.

> **To generate reports, call commands only by the full path, do not use short names, like `koverXmlReport`.**

Reviewer: Doing so will just ask for a report in all available projects. Is that a problem? AFAIU, we should get one merged report and several individuals from that. This is unnecessary work, but not really a problem — unless reports generators conflict with each other. If they DO conflict, I would say this is a UX problem, they shouldn't do that.

Author: They don't conflict with each other. However, not all users are familiar with the features of Gradle, and how the two forms of calling tasks differ.

By calling tasks by a short name, users can get an unexpected result: tests will be run for all modules (projects) in the assembly, which can take a very long time.

This can happen, for example, in this case:
there are projects A, B, C, D in the build. The merged report is generated only on projects A, B, C. However, if user call the task in this way `gradlew koverHtmlReport` then, among others, tests are executed in the D project.

Running one of these tasks automatically triggers the launch of all test tasks from merging module and the modules specified in it as kover dependencies.

> To exclude the automatic launch of a certain task and never take into account the coverage of this task, you should additionally [configure the corresponded project](TODO).

Reviewer: TODO

```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        total {
            verify {
                // add new verification rule
                rule {
                    // specify coverage bounds for the rule
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

You can read more about creating verification rules in the [corresponding section](#verification).

#### Configuring Reports
To configure of the report generation for `custom` report variant, it is necessary to specify the following in the build script file of the merging module (and only in it):

```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        variant("custom") {
            // configuring report tasks for custom build variant
        }
    }
}
```

To configure of the report generation for all classes of merged modules, it is necessary to specify the following in the build script file of the merging module (and only in it):
```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        total {
            // configuring report tasks
        }
    }
}
```

Available configuration options are listed in a [separate section](#configuring-report-tasks).

----

### Kotlin multiplatform mixed Android and JVM project

> Please refer to the [example project](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx-kover/tree/main/kover-gradle-plugin/examples/jvm/with-jvm).

Author: Yes, this example is in the current PR

> Please refer to the [example project](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx-kover/tree/main/kover-gradle-plugin/examples/jvm/with-jvm).

Reviewer: There's no `jvm/with-jvm` in this PR or in 0.8.0 branch. There's only `android/with-jvm`

#### Example
The full example for multi-module Kotlin JVM project can be found [here](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx-kover/tree/main/kover-gradle-plugin/examples/jvm/merged).

#### Adding verification rules

To add verification rules, in the build script file of the merging module (and only in it) it is necessary to specify the following:
```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        verify {
            // add new verification rule
            rule {
                // specify coverage bounds for the rule
            } 
        }
    }
}
```
You can read more about creating verification rules in the [corresponding section](#verification).

#### Configuring Reports
The configuration of the report generation tasks takes place in a block for an aggregated tasks in the build script file of the merging module (and only in it). 

```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        total {
            // configuring report tasks
        }
    }
}
```

Available configuration options are listed in a [separate section](#configuring-report-tasks).

----

### Multi-module Kotlin multiplatform project

Kover supports coverage measurement only for JVM targets.

> Source code specified not in the common and not JVM source sets are ignored.

Author: Yes, is this a problem?

> Source code specified not in the common and not JVM source sets are ignored.

Reviewer: No, I meant 'apply my comments there to this section as well'

As well as coverage from non-JVM tests is also not taken into account.

Otherwise, the use of the plugin is identical to the use in the [multi-module Kotlin JVM project](#multi-module-kotlin-jvm-project).

----

### Kotlin single-module Android project
#### Application of Kover plugin
Add the following to build file in single `app` module of your Gradle build:
```kotlin
plugins {
     id("org.jetbrains.kotlinx.kover") version "0.7.6"
}
```
After applying Kover Gradle plugin, during the running tests, the classes are modified (instrumented) when loaded into the JVM which may lead to some performance degradation, or affect concurrent tests.

> In order to learn more about instrumentation, and it's configuring, please refer to the [corresponded section](#instrumentation).

Reviewer: Then we need to add this info to this section

For more information about application of the plugin, refer to the [relevant section](#apply-kover-gradle-plugin-in-project)

#### Using Android Build Variants
In the Android Gradle Plugin, the module is divided into different **build variants** (flavor + build type), which may have different source sets and tests.
For each Gradle Build Variant, Kover creates its own **report variant** that have the same names.

The **report variant** includes only the classes declared in the corresponding **build variant**, and also runs only tests this **build variant**.

> Kover also creates a special **report variant**, which includes all classes and all tests of the module. This variant is called the **total variant** - and it does not have a special name.

Author: No, actually it has empty name.

According task naming rules, `koverHtmlReport<variantName>` -> for `custom` it is `koverHtmlReportCustom` but `koverHtmlReport` for total varaint

If reports are needed for all classes in the `app` module, then:
- To generate JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:app:koverXmlReport` Gradle task
- To generate HTML report, call `:app:koverHtmlReport` Gradle task
- To validate verification rule specified in project in [verification block](#specify-verification-rules-for-total-variant), call `:app:koverVerify` Gradle task
- To generate binary report in IC format, call `:app:koverBinaryReport` Gradle task
- To print coverage to the log, call `:app:koverLog` Gradle task

Running one of these tasks automatically triggers the launch of all test tasks in `app` module.
To exclude the automatic launch of a certain task and never take into account the coverage of this task, you should additionally [configure the project](TODO).

#### Example
The full example for single-module Android project can be found [here](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx-kover/tree/main/kover-gradle-plugin/examples/android/minimal_kts).

#### Adding verification rules

To add verification rules which will be checked for each build variant and for the entire `app` module, it is necessary to specify the following:
```kotlin
kover {
    reports {

>         verify {

Author: Yes, it's common rule, that will be inherited in all variants until you override it.

                // specify coverage bounds for the rule
            } 
        }
    }
}
```

If it is necessary to add a verification rule that will be checked only for a specific build variant, you need to create individual rules:
```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        variant("debug") {
            verify {
                // add new verification rule
                rule {
                    // specify coverage bounds for the rule
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```
in this example, a verification rule is added for the `debug` build variant report

If it is necessary that a verification rule be added for a report on all classes, but does not affect reports on specific build variants, then:
```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        total {
            verify {
                // add new verification rule
                rule {
                    // specify coverage bounds for the rule
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

You can read more about creating verification rules in the [corresponding section](#verification).

#### Configuring Reports
The configuration of the report generation for `debud` build variant: 

```kotlin
kover {

>     reports {

Author: HTML report does not have any common parameters that would be convenient to configure in the same way.

Basically, the report directory is configured there (which should be different for different variants) and titles (which are also desirable to be different)

After applying Kover Gradle plugin, during the running tests, the classes are modified (instrumented) when loaded into the JVM which may lead to some performance degradation, or affect concurrent tests.
In order to learn more about instrumentation, and it's configuring, please refer to the [corresponded section](#instrumentation).

#### Using Android Build Variants
In the Android Gradle Plugin, the module is divided into different **build variants** (flavor + build type), which may have different source sets and tests.
For each Gradle Build Variant, Kover creates its own **report variant** that have the same names.

The **report variant** includes only the classes declared in the corresponding **build variant**, and also runs only tests this **build variant**.

If there is a need to generate report from classes of several **build variants**, then you could create custom **report variant**:
```kotlin
kover {
    currentProject {
        createVariant("custom") {
            add("libDebug")
            add("appDebug")
        }  
    }
}
```
Thus, a **report variant** `custom` will be created, which contains classes and tests from the `libDebug` and `appDebug` **build variants**.

> #### Total report variant

Reviewer: No, I mean single-module **Android** project. There, there's no separate section for total variant, it is just mentioned alongside other variants. Better to make sections identical in one or another way

Kover also creates a special **report variant**, which includes all classes and all tests of the module. This variant is called the **total variant** - and it does not have a special name.
The names of the **report variants** are used when configuring the report and when running report generation tasks.

#### Different Build Variants in different modules

> if the build variants differ between modules, then a custom report variant should be created in each module.

Author: Yes, the problem is that the case is quite non-trivial, but obvious to me)

At the same time, in each module, the necessary variants that are present in corresponded module must be added to the custom variant
```kotlin
kover {
    currentProject {
        createVariant("custom") {

>             add("libDebug")

Author: > What about addWithDependencies? When we should use it?

Ideally, never, so I didn't describe it in the documentation)

The case of its use is very complicated, it requires a very careful description, however, it is useful only in a very small number of cases, and at the same time you need to understand very well how Kover and Gradle work

#### Application of Kover plugin
Add the following to build file in each module of your Gradle build:

```kotlin
plugins {
     id("org.jetbrains.kotlinx.kover") version "0.7.6"
}
```
It is recommended to apply the Kover Plugin in the root module, even if there is no source code or tests there.
You [do not need to specify](#application-in-submodule-with-plugins-dsl) the plugin version in all submodules.

For more information about application of the plugin, refer to the [relevant section](#apply-kover-gradle-plugin-in-project)

After applying Kover Gradle plugin, during the running tests, the classes are modified (instrumented) when loaded into the JVM which may lead to some performance degradation, or affect concurrent tests.
In order to learn more about instrumentation, and it's configuring, please refer to the [corresponded section](#instrumentation).

#### Create custom Report Variants
The module with Android Gradle Plugin or Kotlin multiplatform with android target is divided into different **build variants** (flavor + build type), which may have different source sets and tests.
For each Gradle Build Variant, Kover creates its own **report variant** that have the same names.

> Such **report variant** includes only the classes declared in the corresponding **build variant**, and also runs only tests this **build variant**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such **report variant** includes only the classes declared in the corresponding **build variant**, and also runs only tests in this **build variant**.
```

For JVM target in Kotlin multiplatform module or for Kotlin JVM module Kover creates special **report variant** with name `jvm`. 

> Reports for `jvm` **report variant** contains classes and JVM tests from JVM target or all classes from Kotlin JVM module. 

Reviewer: "Reports contain" or "report contains"?

If there is a need to generate report from classes of several **build variants**, then you could create custom **report variant**:
```kotlin
kover {

>     currentProject {

Reviewer: `currentProject` is not explained anywhere. What happens if I forgot to add it? Is it required only for merging project (which is explained below, not above)?

Author: This is needed only if it is necessary to put classes from several Android Build Variants in one report at once.

> What happens if I forgot to add it?
Then the `custom` report variant will not be created and you will not be able to call the `koverHtmlReportCustom` task :).

Reviewer: Ah, `createVariant` is defined in it. Why can't it be just `kover { createVariant(...) {}}` though?

Author: In this case we will need to move all the functions of working with variants there: `createVariant`, `providedVariant`, `totalVariant` - it seemed to me that it would be too much

*the general rule is that the name of the report variant is always added at the end

Running one of these tasks automatically triggers the launch of all test tasks for `custom` report variant in all merged module.
To exclude the automatic launch of a certain task and never take into account the coverage of this task, you should additionally [configure the project](TODO).

If reports are needed for all classes in the merged modules, then:
- To generate JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:koverXmlReport` Gradle task
- To generate HTML report, call `:koverHtmlReport` Gradle task
- To validate verification rule specified in project in [verification block](#specify-verification-rules-for-total-variant), call `:koverVerify` Gradle task
- To generate binary report in IC format, call `:koverBinaryReport` Gradle task
- To print coverage to the log, call `:koverLog` Gradle task

Running one of these tasks automatically triggers the launch of all test tasks in all merged module.
To exclude the automatic launch of a certain task and never take into account the coverage of this task, you should additionally [configure the project](TODO).

> #### Example

Reviewer: I may be missing something, but this example doesn't actually have mixed JVM + android sources sets, it only has regular :app and :lib modules

Author: `:lib - is a JVM project, so you should write
```
kover {
    currentProject {
        createVariant("custom") {
            add("jvm")
        }
    }
}
```

to use classes from JVM target in your custom reports

> The full example for multi-module Kotlin JVM project can be found [here](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx-kover/tree/main/kover-gradle-plugin/examples/android/with-jvm).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The full example for Kotlin multiplatform mixed Android and JVM project can be found [here](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx-kover/tree/main/kover-gradle-plugin/examples/android/with-jvm).
```

* Using JaCoCo library as an alternative for coverage measuring and report generation.

## Quickstart
To make the minimal configuration of the plugin, determine the type of your Gradle build and learn the instructions for configuring

## Build types
### Single module Kotlin JVM project
#### Application of Kover plugin
Add the following to your build file:

```kotlin
plugins {
     id("org.jetbrains.kotlinx.kover") version "0.7.6"
}
```
For more information about application of the plugin, refer to the [relevant section](#apply-kover-gradle-plugin-in-project)

After applying Kover Gradle plugin, the classes are modified (instrumented) when loaded into the JVM during regular test runs, 
so number of line hits can be counted. This may impact your testing experience. 
To learn more about instrumentation, it's configuring, and solutions for typical problems, please refer to the [corresponded section](#instrumentation).

#### Generating reports
- To generate JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `koverXmlReport` Gradle task

> - To generate HTML report, call `koverHtmlReport` Gradle task

Reviewer: (also in all similar places)

```kotlin
dependencies {
    kover(project(":moduleA"))
    kover(project(":moduleB"))
}
```

#### Generating reports
Suppose if we chose the root module as the merging module, then

- To generate JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:koverXmlReport` Gradle task
- To generate HTML report, call `:koverHtmlReport` Gradle task
- To validate verification rule specified in project in [verification block](#specify-verification-rules-for-total-variant), call `:koverVerify` Gradle task
- To generate binary report in IC format, call `:koverBinaryReport` Gradle task, for more info refer to the [relevant section](#binary-reports)
- To print coverage to the log, call `:koverLog` Gradle task

If a module with the path `:foo` was selected as the merging module, then you will need to call commands like `:foo:koverXmlReport`, etc.

It is recommended to use only full path commands since short names like `koverXmlReport` will run all tests in all projects, even if they are not specified as `kover` dependencies.

Running one of these tasks automatically triggers the launch of all test tasks from merging module and the modules specified in it as kover dependencies.

> To exclude the automatic launch of a certain task and never take into account the coverage of this task, you should additionally [configure the corresponded project](#exclusion-of-test-tasks).

Reviewer: Check all other places, too

#### Example
The full example for multi-module Kotlin JVM project can be found [here](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx-kover/tree/main/kover-gradle-plugin/examples/jvm/merged).

#### Adding verification rules

To add verification rules, in the build script file of the merging module (and only in it) it is necessary to specify the following:
```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        verify {
            // add new verification rule
            rule {
                // specify coverage bounds for the rule
            } 
        }
    }
}
```
You can read more about creating verification rules in the [corresponding section](#verification).

#### Configuring Reports
The configuration of the report generation tasks takes place in a block for aggregated tasks in the build script file of the merging module (and only in it). 

```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        total {
            // configuring report tasks
        }
    }
}
```

Available configuration options are listed in a [separate section](#configuring-report-tasks).

----

### Multi-module Kotlin multiplatform project

Kover supports coverage measurement only for JVM targets.

> Source code specified not in the common and not JVM source sets are ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Source code outside the common and JVM source sets is ignored. 
```

> As well as coverage from non-JVM tests is also not taken into account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, coverage for non-JVM tests is not collected.
```

Otherwise, the use of the plugin is identical to the use in the [multi-module Kotlin JVM project](#multi-module-kotlin-jvm-project).

----

### Kotlin single-module Android project
#### Application of Kover plugin

> Add the following to build file in single `app` module of your Gradle build:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following to the build file only in the `app` module of your Gradle build:
```

```kotlin
plugins {
     id("org.jetbrains.kotlinx.kover") version "0.7.6"
}
```

For more information about application of the plugin, refer to the [relevant section](#apply-kover-gradle-plugin-in-project)

After applying Kover Gradle plugin, the classes are modified (instrumented) when loaded into the JVM during local unit test runs,
so number of line hits can be counted. This may impact your testing experience.

> At the moment, the connected tests are not being instrumented.

Reviewer: Official documentation calls them instrumented tests, so we are in a kinda dumb situation: 
> At the moment, the instrumented (on-device) tests are not being instrumented.

Maybe rephrase this as `At the moment, the instrumented (on-device) tests are not being modified by Kover and coverage for them can not be collected.`?

#### Generating reports
Reports can be generated for a single build variant, or for all at once.

Let's say we want to generate a report for the `debug` build variant and the Android application module has the name `app`:
- To generate JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:app:koverXmlReportDebug` Gradle task
- To generate HTML report, call `:app:koverHtmlReportDebug` Gradle task
- To validate verification rules specified in the project in [verification block](#specify-verification-rules-for-named-variant), call `:app:koverVerifyDebug` Gradle task
- To generate binary report in IC format, call `:app:koverBinaryReportDebug` Gradle task, for more info refer to the [relevant section](#binary-reports)
- To print coverage to the log, call `:app:koverLogDebug` Gradle task

The general rule is that the name of the build variant is always added at the end

Running one of these tasks automatically triggers the launch of all test tasks for `debug` build variant in `app` module.
To exclude the automatic launch of a certain task and never take into account the coverage of this task, you should additionally [configure the project](#exclusion-of-test-tasks).

> If reports are needed for all classes in the `app` module, then:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need a total report for the `app` module (all classes from all build variants), then:
```

- To generate JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:app:koverXmlReport` Gradle task
- To generate HTML report, call `:app:koverHtmlReport` Gradle task
- To validate verification rule specified in project in [verification block](#specify-verification-rules-for-total-variant), call `:app:koverVerify` Gradle task
- To generate binary report in IC format, call `:app:koverBinaryReport` Gradle task, for more info refer to the [relevant section](#binary-reports)
- To print coverage to the log, call `:app:koverLog` Gradle task

Running one of these tasks automatically triggers the launch of all test tasks in `app` module.
To exclude the automatic launch of a certain task and never take into account the coverage of this task, you should additionally [configure the project](#exclusion-of-test-tasks).

#### Example

> The full example for single-module Android project can be found [here](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx-kover/tree/main/kover-gradle-plugin/examples/android/minimal_kts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The full example for a single-module Android project can be found [here](https://github.com/Kotlin/kotlinx-kover/tree/main/kover-gradle-plugin/examples/android/minimal_kts).
```

#### Adding verification rules

> To add verification rules which will be checked for each build/report variant and for the entire `app` module, it is necessary to specify the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add verification rules which will be checked in every build/report variant and for the entire `app` module, it is necessary to specify the following:
```

```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        verify {
            // add new verification rule
            rule {
                // specify coverage bounds for the rule
            } 
        }
    }
}
```

> If it is necessary to add a verification rule that will be checked only for a specific build variant, you need to create individual rules:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it is necessary to add a verification rule that will be checked only for a specific build variant, you need to configure this variant individually:
```

```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        variant("debug") {
            verify {
                // add new verification rule
                rule {
                    // specify coverage bounds for the rule
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```
in this example, a verification rule is added for the `debug` build variant report

> You can also add a verification rule for a total variant, but leave specific build/report variants without such rule:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also add a verification rule for a total variant, but leave specific build/report variants without it:
```

kover {
    reports {
        variant("debug") {
            // configuring report tasks for debug build variant
        }
    }
}
```

The configuration of the report generation for all classes:
```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        total {
            // configuring report tasks
        }
    }
}
```

Available configuration options are listed in a [separate section](#configuring-report-tasks).

----

### Kotlin multi-module Android project
#### Application of Kover plugin
Add the following to build file in each module of your Gradle build:

```kotlin
plugins {
     id("org.jetbrains.kotlinx.kover") version "0.7.6"
}
```
It is recommended to apply the Kover Plugin in the root module, even if there is no source code or tests there.
You [do not need to specify](#application-in-submodule-with-plugins-dsl) the plugin version in all submodules.

For more information about application of the plugin, refer to the [relevant section](#apply-kover-gradle-plugin-in-project)

After applying Kover Gradle plugin, the classes are modified (instrumented) when loaded into the JVM during local unit test runs,
so number of line hits can be counted. This may impact your testing experience.

> At the moment, the connected tests are not being instrumented.

Reviewer: Check my comments for single-module Android

The **report variant** includes only the classes declared in the corresponding **build variant**, and also runs only tests this **build variant**.

If there is a need to generate report from classes of several **build variants**, then you could create custom **report variant** in each module:
```kotlin
kover {
    currentProject {
        createVariant("custom") {
            add("libDebug")
            add("appDebug")
        }  
    }
}
```
Thus, a **report variant** `custom` will be created, which contains classes and tests from the `libDebug` and `appDebug` **build variants**.

#### Total report variant
Kover also creates a special **report variant**, which includes all classes and all tests of the module. This variant is called the **total variant** - and it does not have a special name.
The names of the **report variants** are used when configuring the report and when running report generation tasks.

#### Different Build Variants in different modules
Suppose you have two modules, `:app1`, `:app2` and build variants differ between these unrelated modules.
Let it be `debug` and `release` in the `:app1`, and `mainDebug`, `extraDebug` and `release` in the `:app2`.

> If you need to create a report containing classes from these two modules at the same time, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to create a report containing classes from some set of build variants out of these two modules at the same time, 
```

> but a limited set of build variants, then you should create a custom report variant in each module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 then you should create a custom report variant in each module.
```

For example, you need classes from `debug` build variant from `:app1`, and `extraDebug` from `:app2`.
Then you need to add these variants to the custom one in the appropriate modules:

In `:app1`
```kotlin
kover {
    currentProject {
        createVariant("custom") {
            add("debug")
        }  
    }
}
```
And in `:app2`
```kotlin
kover {
    currentProject {
        createVariant("custom") {
            add("extraDebug")
        }  
    }
}
```

> After that, you should use the report generation tasks only for this custom variant, e.g. `koverHtmlReportCustom`.

Reviewer: Do I get 1 report out of it? Does it work even if the merging module doesn't declare `custom` explicitly?

Author: It is expected that it will be created in all modules, this is described above:
`you should create a custom report variant in each module.`

    }
}
```

Available configuration options are listed in a [separate section](#configuring-report-tasks).

----

### Kotlin multiplatform mixed Android and JVM project
#### Application of Kover plugin
Add the following to build file in each module of your Gradle build:

```kotlin
plugins {
     id("org.jetbrains.kotlinx.kover") version "0.7.6"
}
```
It is recommended to apply the Kover Plugin in the root module, even if there is no source code or tests there.
You [do not need to specify](#application-in-submodule-with-plugins-dsl) the plugin version in all submodules.

For more information about application of the plugin, refer to the [relevant section](#apply-kover-gradle-plugin-in-project)

After applying Kover Gradle plugin, the classes are modified (instrumented) when loaded into the JVM during Android local unit test and JVM test runs,
so number of line hits can be counted. This may impact your testing experience.
At the moment, the Android connected tests are not being instrumented.

To learn more about instrumentation, it's configuring, and solutions for typical problems, please refer to the [corresponded section](#instrumentation).

#### Create custom Report Variants

> The module with Android Gradle Plugin or Kotlin multiplatform with android target is divided into different **build variants** (flavor + build type), which may have different source sets and tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The module with Android Gradle Plugin or Kotlin multiplatform with Android target is divided into different **build variants** (flavor + build type), which may have different source sets and tests.
```

#### Merging reports from different modules
In multi-module projects, it is often the case that code in some module (let's name it A) is being tested by tests in some other module B.
In such a setup, when you run `:A:koverReport` alone, you would get 0% coverage since module A does not contain any tests.
For classes and coverage from all necessary modules to be included in the report, you have to configure report merging.

For this:
1. select the module that will collect information about all classes and from which the report generation will be launched.
  let's call such a module **merging module**. We recommend using the root module (root Gradle project) as a **merging module**.
  Note: running `koverHtmlReport` in merging module will automatically run tests in all dependent modules.
2. add dependencies in the **merging module** to all other modules whose classes and coverage counters should be included in the merged report
```kotlin
dependencies {
    kover(project(":moduleA"))
    kover(project(":moduleB"))
}
```

#### Generating reports
Suppose if we chose the root module as the merging module, then

> - To generate JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:koverXmlReport` Gradle task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To generate a JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:koverXmlReport` Gradle task
```

- To generate an HTML report, call `:koverHtmlReport` Gradle task
- To validate verification rule specified in project in [verification block](#specify-verification-rules-for-total-variant), call `:koverVerify` Gradle task

> - To generate binary report in IC format, call `:koverBinaryReport` Gradle task, for more info refer to the [relevant section](#binary-reports)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To generate [a binary report](#binary-reports) in IC format, call `:koverBinaryReport` Gradle task
```

Reviewer: Please fix this in other places too

- To generate a JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:app:koverXmlReportDebug` Gradle task
- To generate an HTML report, call `:app:koverHtmlReportDebug` Gradle task
- To validate verification rules specified in the project in [verification block](#specify-verification-rules-for-named-variant), call `:app:koverVerifyDebug` Gradle task
- To generate [a binary report](#binary-reports) in IC format, call `:app:koverBinaryReportDebug` Gradle task
- To print coverage to the log, call `:app:koverLogDebug` Gradle task

The general rule is that the name of the build variant is always added at the end

Running one of these tasks automatically triggers the launch of all test tasks for `debug` build variant in `app` module.
To exclude the automatic launch of a certain task and never take into account the coverage of this task, you should additionally [configure the corresponding project](#exclusion-of-test-tasks). Exclusion of specific classes or annotations can be configured through [report filtering](#filtering-reports).

If you need a total report for the `app` module (all classes from all build variants), then:

> - To generate JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:app:koverXmlReport` Gradle task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To generate a JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:app:koverXmlReport` Gradle task
```

#### Merging reports from different modules
In multi-module projects, it is often the case that code in some module (let's name it A) is being tested by tests in some other module B.
In such a setup, when you run `:A:koverReport` alone, you would get 0% coverage since module A does not contain any tests.
For classes and coverage from all necessary modules to be included in the report, you have to configure report merging.

For this:
1. select the module that will collect information about all classes and from which the report generation will be launched.
   let's call such a module **merging module**. We recommend using the root module (root Gradle project) as a **merging module**.
2. add dependencies in the **merging module** to all other modules whose classes should be included in the merged report
```kotlin
dependencies {
    kover(project(":moduleA"))
    kover(project(":moduleB"))
}
```

#### Generating reports
Reports can be generated for a single report variant, or for all classes.

Suppose if we chose the root module as the merging module.
Let's say we want to generate a report for the `debug` report:

> - To generate JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:koverXmlReportDebug` Gradle task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To generate a JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:koverXmlReportDebug` Gradle task
```

- To generate an HTML report, call `:koverHtmlReportDebug` Gradle task
- To validate verification rule specified in project in [verification block](#specify-verification-rules-for-named-variant), call `:koverVerifyDebug` Gradle task
- To generate binary report in IC format, call `:koverBinaryReportDebug` Gradle task, for more info refer to the [relevant section](#binary-reports)
- To print coverage to the log, call `:koverLogDebug` Gradle task

> *the general rule is that the name of the report variant is always added at the end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The general rule is that the name of the report variant is always added at the end.
```

Running one of these tasks automatically triggers the launch of all test tasks for `debug` report variant in all merged module.
To exclude the automatic launch of a certain task and never take into account the coverage of this task, you should additionally [configure the corresponding project](#exclusion-of-test-tasks). Exclusion of specific classes or annotations can be configured through [report filtering](#filtering-reports).

If reports are needed for all classes in the merged modules, then:

> - To generate JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:koverXmlReport` Gradle task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To generate a JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:koverXmlReport` Gradle task
```

The names of the **report variants** are used when configuring the report and when running report generation tasks.

#### Merging reports from different modules
In order for classes from all necessary modules to be included in the report, as well as tests from these modules to be performed, you need to configure report aggregation.

For this:
1. select the module that will collect information about all classes and from which the report generation will be launched.
   let's call such a module **merging module**. We recommend using the root module (root Gradle project) as a **merging module**.
2. add dependencies in the **merging module** to all other modules whose classes should be included in the merged report
```kotlin
dependencies {
    kover(project(":moduleA"))
    kover(project(":moduleB"))
}
```

#### Generating reports
Reports can be generated for a single report variant, or for all classes.

Suppose if we chose the root module as the merging module.
Let's say we want to generate a report for the `custom` report:

> - To generate JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:koverXmlReportCustom` Gradle task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To generate a JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:koverXmlReportCustom` Gradle task
```

- To generate an HTML report, call `:koverHtmlReportCustom` Gradle task
- To validate verification rule specified in project in [verification block](#specify-verification-rules-for-named-variant), call `:koverVerifyCustom` Gradle task
- To generate [a binary report](#binary-reports) in IC format, call `:koverBinaryReportCustom` Gradle task
- To print coverage to the log, call `:koverLogCustom` Gradle task

The general rule is that the name of the report variant is always added at the end.

Running one of these tasks automatically triggers the launch of all test tasks for `custom` report variant in all merged module.
To exclude the automatic launch of a certain task and never take into account the coverage of this task, you should additionally [configure the corresponding project](#exclusion-of-test-tasks). Exclusion of specific classes or annotations can be configured through [report filtering](#filtering-reports).

If reports are needed for all classes in the merged modules, then:

> - To generate JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:koverXmlReport` Gradle task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To generate a JaCoCo-compatible XML report, call `:koverXmlReport` Gradle task
```

apply plugin: 'org.jetbrains.kotlinx.kover'    
```

#### Application in submodule with Plugins DSL

If you are using a plugin in a multi-module build, then there is no need to re-specify the plugin version in the submodules, 
and it is enough to write like this:
```kotlin
plugins {
     id("org.jetbrains.kotlinx.kover")
}
```

> ### Specify verification rules for total variant

Reviewer: It seems that you have `Specify verification rules for total variant` and `Specify verification rules for named variant` sections before the actual documentation for verification rules

```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        total {
            verify {
                // verification rules
            }
        }
    }
}
```

### Specify verification rules for named variant

Configuring verification rules for named report variant `foo`
```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        variant("foo") {
            verify {
                // verification rules
            }
        }
    }
}
```

You can read more about creating verification rules in the [corresponding section](#verification).

> ### Configuring report tasks

Reviewer: This section lacks some text, as it is just a showcase of DSL. You should add a little bit of 'water' to it.

```kotlin
filters {
    // clear filters and override by specified 
}

filtersAppend {
    // add filters
}

xml {
    title = "Custom XML title"
    onCheck = false
    xmlFile = file("files")
}

html {
    title = "Custom HTML title"
    onCheck = false
    charset = "UTF-8"
    htmlDir = dir("my-html")
}

log {
    onCheck = false
    header = "Header"
    groupBy = GroupingEntityType.APPLICATION
    aggregationForGroup = AggregationType.COVERED_PERCENTAGE
    format = "<entity> line coverage: <value>%"
    coverageUnits = CoverageUnit.LINE
}

binary {
    onCheck = false
    file = file("file.ic")
}

verify {
    // clear verification rules and override by specified 
}

verifyAppend {
    // add verification rules
}
```

### Verification
#### Coverage value

> During verification, the entire code is divided into units of code for which it determines whether it was covered (executed) or skipped (not executed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During verification, the entire code is divided into units for which Kover determines whether it was covered (executed) or skipped (not executed).
```

For example, an entire line from source code or a specific JVM instruction from compiled byte-code can be executed or not.

All units are grouped into one or more groups.
Based on amount of the executed and non-executed code units, one number (coverage value) will be calculated for each group using the aggregation function.

Type `CoverageUnit` determines for which types of units the coverage will be measured.

> It is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be:
```

Also, we probably should inform users if some units are not supported by JaCoCo. Or are they all supported now?

and it is enough to write like this:
```kotlin
plugins {
     id("org.jetbrains.kotlinx.kover")
}
```

### Configuring report tasks
The following is an example of all the features provided by DSL for configuring reports for a report variant

```kotlin
filters {
    // clear filters and override by specified 
}

filtersAppend {
    // add filters
}

xml {
    title = "Custom XML title"
    onCheck = false
    xmlFile = file("files")
}

html {
    title = "Custom HTML title"
    onCheck = false
    charset = "UTF-8"
    htmlDir = dir("my-html")
}

log {
    onCheck = false
    header = "Header"
    groupBy = GroupingEntityType.APPLICATION
    aggregationForGroup = AggregationType.COVERED_PERCENTAGE
    format = "<entity> line coverage: <value>%"
    coverageUnits = CoverageUnit.LINE
}

binary {
    onCheck = false
    file = file("file.ic")
}

verify {
    // clear verification rules and override by specified 
}

verifyAppend {
    // add verification rules
}
```

This is available both from the total report settings
```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        total {
            // configuring report tasks
        }
    }
}
```

> so it is for named variants

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and for named variants
```

    format = "<entity> line coverage: <value>%"
    coverageUnits = CoverageUnit.LINE
}

binary {
    onCheck = false
    file = file("file.ic")
}

verify {
    // clear verification rules and override by specified 
}

verifyAppend {
    // add verification rules
}
```

This is available both from the total report settings
```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        total {
            // configuring report tasks
        }
    }
}
```

and for named variants
```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        variant("debug") {
            // configuring report tasks
        }
    }
}
```

### Verification
#### Coverage value
During verification, the entire code is divided into units for which Kover determines whether it was covered (executed) or skipped (not executed).
For example, an entire line from source code or a specific JVM instruction from compiled byte-code can be executed or not.

All units are grouped into one or more groups.
Based on amount of the executed and non-executed code units, one number (coverage value) will be calculated for each group using the aggregation function.

Type `CoverageUnit` determines for which types of units the coverage will be measured.
It can be:

> - `LINE`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `LINE`. This is a default value.
```

- `INSTRUCTION`
- `BRANCH`

For comparison with the specified boundaries, the number of covered (executed) or skipped (not executed) units should be aggregated into one number.

> `AggregationType` determines exactly how the current measurement value will be calculated:

Reviewer: Also mention which one is default value

- `PACKAGE` - the coverage value will be calculated individually for all classes in each package. So the bounds will be checked for each package

#### Verification rules
Verification rule - is a set of restrictions on the coverage value for each group.
Rules can have their own names - they are printed when restrictions are violated (does not work for JaCoCo).

Each restriction represents a bound for valid coverage value, expressed in the minimum and/or maximum allowable values.

Rules can be specified for all report variants:
```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        verify {
            rule {
                minBound(50)
            }
        }
    }
}
```

#### Specify verification rules for total variant
Verification rules for all classes and tests of Gradle build

```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        total {
            verify {
                // verification rules
            }
        }
    }
}
```

#### Specify verification rules for named variant

Configuring verification rules for named report variant `custom`
```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        variant("custom") {
            verify {
                // verification rules
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> You can read more about creating verification rules in the [corresponding section](#verification).

Reviewer: Given that this sentence is literally in #verification section, it seems unnecessary

### Instrumentation
To collect code coverage for JVM applications, Kover uses instrumentation - modification of the bytecode in order to place entry counters in certain blocks of the code.

Instrumentation can be performed by a special JVM agent that transforms the loaded classes right while the application is running.
This approach is called on the fly instrumentation.
This is the approach used in the Kover Gradle Plugin.

In some cases, using JVM instrumentation agent can lead to the generation of invalid bytecode for some classes, as a result, the application may not work correctly.
In this case, it is necessary to disable the instrumentation of the problem class. As a side effect, the coverage of such a class will not be measured, and if the excluded class was declared in the project, then its coverage in the report will always be 0.
```kotlin
kover {
    currentProject {
        instrumentation {
            excludedClasses.add("com.example.UnInstrumented*")
        }
    }
}

> ```

Reviewer: Should we also mention `disableForAll/disableForTestTasks` with a comment like `Instrumentation also may affect tests performance. In case you have some performance-sensitive scenarios, you may want to disable instrumentation conditionally, e.g., for some tasks.`

```kotlin
kover {
    reports {
        variant("debug") {
            // configuring report tasks
        }
    }
}
```

### Verification
#### Coverage value
During verification, the entire code is divided into units for which Kover determines whether it was covered (executed) or skipped (not executed).
For example, an entire line from source code or a specific JVM instruction from compiled byte-code can be executed or not.

All units are grouped into one or more groups.
Based on amount of the executed and non-executed code units, one number (coverage value) will be calculated for each group using the aggregation function.

Type `CoverageUnit` determines for which types of units the coverage will be measured.
It can be:
- `LINE`. This is a default value.
- `INSTRUCTION`
- `BRANCH`

For comparison with the specified boundaries, the number of covered (executed) or skipped (not executed) units should be aggregated into one number.
`AggregationType` determines exactly how the current measurement value will be calculated:
- `COVERED_COUNT` - the total number of units of code that were executed
- `MISSED_COUNT` - the total number of units of code that were not executed

> - `COVERED_PERCENTAGE` - is the number of covered units divided by the number of all units and multiplied by 100. This is a default value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `COVERED_PERCENTAGE` - is the number of covered units divided by the number of all units and multiplied by 100. This is a default value.
```

Reviewer: Also please add dots to every item in these 3 lists for uniformity

Instrumentation can be performed by a special JVM agent that transforms the loaded classes right while the application is running.
This approach is called on the fly instrumentation.
This is the approach used in the Kover Gradle Plugin.

In some cases, using JVM instrumentation agent can lead to the generation of invalid bytecode for some classes, as a result, the application may not work correctly.
In this case, it is necessary to disable the instrumentation of the problem class. As a side effect, the coverage of such a class will not be measured, and if the excluded class was declared in the project, then its coverage in the report will always be 0.
```kotlin
kover {
    currentProject {
        instrumentation {
            excludedClasses.add("com.example.UnInstrumented*")

            /* 
            Instrumentation also may affect tests performance. 
            In case you have some performance-sensitive scenarios, 
            you may want to disable instrumentation conditionally, e.g., for set of test tasks or all of them
             */
            
            // disable instrumentation of specified test tasks in current project

>             disableForTestTasks.add("test")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            disableForTestTasks.add("nightlyLoadTest")
```
